---
layout: post
title: Chapter 1-Installation
permalink: /documents/
---

For the installation in windows, it is very tricky, you need to install the PETSc first, then you can compile AsFem after that.

# Step-1
Firstly, you need to install the PETSc in your windows system. In order to do this, you need to install [Cygwin](http://www.cygwin.com/). Download it and double click on it, it will ask you to select the FTP server(please choose the one close to you to speed up the download rate).

After that, you can search the GCC, g++, python, make components (GCC/g++, make, python are required to install PETSc). After the necessary components are selected, Cygwin will download it and install them into the folder you selected. If everything is fine, you should find the 'mintty.exe' file in your Cygwin-install-path/bin folder.

# Step-2
In order to let the Cygwin compiler knows that we have the msvc c/c++ compiler, please open your start->visualstudo2019->x86_64-native-compiler (whatever the name it is, just a terminal command-prompt, open it!). After the terminal is open, cd into the 'mintty.exe' file's folder and run
```
/usr/bin/bash --login
```
it will open a new terminal (named by Cygwin maybe), now both the win32fe compiler and GCC compiler are ready for the next step. Remember, in the following steps, you should do all the compilation stuff in this new terminal!!!

# Step-3
Now we can do the installation for PETSc in windows since your new terminal is a Linux-type terminal, you can download the PETSc via:
```
curl -L -O http://ftp.mcs.anl.gov/pub/petsc/release-snapshots/petsc-3.11.4.tar.gz
```
or download PETSc from your favorite browser, and choose the version you like from here: https://www.mcs.anl.gov/petsc/mirror/release-snapshots/

Then you can unzip it via 'tar -xf petsc.tar.gz' or just right-click on it and unzip it. After that, cd into the petsc folder from your new terminal, and run the configuration file like below:
```
./configure --with-cc='win32fe cl' --with-fc=0 --with-cxx='win32fe cl' --with-mpi=0 \
--download-f2cblaslapack \
CFLAGS='-fPIC -fopenmp -O3 -march=native' \
CXXFLAGS='-fPIC -fopenmp -O3 -march=native' \
FFLAGS='-fPIC -fopenmp -O3 -march=native' \
FCFLAGS='-fPIC -fopenmp ' \
F90FLAGS='-fPIC -fopenmp ' \
F77FLAGS='-fPIC -fopenmp '
```
after the configuration is done, it will ask you to do several 'make xxxxxx' steps, then you just need to copy the 'make xxx' command from the terminal and copy it and run it.
After several steps (3~4, normally it is 1) 'make xxxx' 2) 'make xxx install' 3) 'make xxxx test'), your PETSc should be ready. By default, the petsc is installed in the same folder as your petsc source code, but it may have a different name, i.e. win-opt-arch, something like that.


# Step-3
Now you can compile AsFem after you download the source code, you need to edit the CMakeLists.txt file in AsFem folder, please choose the windows release configuration in CMakeLists.txt file, and make sure the path to your PETSc and Eigen is correct (in windows, the path is 'C:\\Program\\xxx', however, it should be modified as 'C:/Program/XXX', otherwise it can not be recognized). Another important thing is, in Linux the library file is named as 'xxx.so'. However, it is different in windows, where you should give 'petsc.lib' or whatever the name you see in your petsc's lib folder.

After your CMakeLists.txt file is ready, open your VisualStudio2019 and open the AsFem folder, then compile it.
In order to run asfem, you need to put the petsc.dll file together with asfem. 

That's all you need to do. Done and enjoy it!